[docs] Placement group documentation (#10555)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/placement-group.rst

Placement Group
===============

> Ray is great at scheduling tasks and actors based on its resource requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Placement groups allow users to atomically reserve groups of resources across multiple nodes (i.e., gang scheduling). They can request the resource bundles that make up the group to be packed as close as possible for locality (PACK), or spread apart (SPREAD). Groups can be destroyed to release all resources associated with the group. The Ray Autoscaler will be aware of placement groups, and auto-scale the cluster to ensure pending groups can be placed as needed.
```

Reviewer: Copy pasted from whitepaper

> requirements, it is also important to specify which "place" they should be scheduled. Ray's placement group APIs allow you to place your actors or tasks according to your strategies.

Reviewer 2: typo? 

also maybe try to avoid first and second person too (“you”)

> requirements, it is also important to specify which "place" they should be scheduled. Ray's placement group APIs allow you to place your actors or tasks according to your strategies.

Reviewer 2: also what is a strategy? Let’s define key concepts first!

Let's see some scenarios it is useful.

> - **Gang scheduling**: Let's say you'd like to place exact number of actors on each GPU node to maximize bandwidth.

Reviewer 2: This isn’t gang scheduling right? This is colocation?

Reviewer 3: Yes, I think we should make it clear that we want all of the actors to run or none of them.

> - **Maximizing data locality**: To avoid Ray objects transfer cost, you'd like to pack all actors or tasks as much as possible.

Reviewer 2: I’d imagine data locality means more like “data is stagnant/on ebs and compute is placed next to data”.

> - **Improving availability**: To improve availability, you'd like to place your actors or tasks into different physical machines as much as possible.

Reviewer 2: maybe say load balancing?

- **Resource reservation in multi-tenant cluster**: You can reserve resources for your job ahead of time, so that you won't need to worry that resource competition slows down your job.

.. note::

>   Ray's placement group is still under active development. Please try out and give us feedback and report bugs!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Placement groups are still under active development. Please try it out and give us feedback and report bugs!
```

  APIs are subject to change in the future.

> Quick Start

Reviewer 2: IMO you should put this last (as an example). You should start off with *key concepts* first!

Reviewer 3: +1, it would be great to explain what bundles are earlier on!

Reviewer 2: fixed!

-----------

Let's see an example of using placement group. Note that this example is done within a single node.

.. code-block:: python
  
  import ray
  from pprint import pprint
  # Import placement group APIs.

>   from ray.experimental.placement_group import (

Author: Should use util instead of experimental.

      placement_group,
      placement_group_table,
      remove_placement_group
  )

>   ray.init(num_gpus=2, resources={"TPU": 2})

Reviewer 2: Let’s avoid using TPU as an example because this might cause confusion.

Reviewer 2: TPUs require special handling and we don’t support it in Ray right now

>   # Bundle is a dictionary of resource requirements.

Reviewer 2: what is a resource requirement?

>   # Bundles are reserved on Ray clusters according to placement strategy.

Reviewer 2: what is a placement strategy? what does it mean to be reserved on a cluster?

>   # Tasks or actors can be scheduled on each bundle.

Reviewer 2: a bundle is a dictionary,  but how can a task be scheduled on a dictionary (bundle)?

  gpu_bundle = {"GPU": 2}

>   tpu_bundle = {"TPU": 2}

Reviewer: Please don't use TPU as a resource, in the future we will likely support this as just a kind of GPU. Instead, use CPU resources as an example.

  
  # Reserve 2 of GPU bundles with strict pack strategy.
  # It means Ray will reserve 2 GPU resources on the same node (strict pack) within a Ray cluster.
  # Using this placement group for scheduling actors or tasks will guarantee that they will
  # collocate in the same node.
  pg = placement_group([gpu_bundle, tpu_bundle], strategy="STRICT_PACK")
  
  # Wait until placement group is created.
  ray.get(pg.ready())

  # You can also use ray.wait.
  ready, unready = ray.wait([pg.ready()], timeout=0)

  # You can look at placement group states using this API.
  pprint(placement_group_table(pg))

  # Now let's define actors that uses GPUs.
  @ray.remote(num_gpus=1)
  class GPUActor:
      def __init__(self):
          pass

  # Now let's define actors that uses TPUs.
  @ray.remote(resources={"TPU": 1})
  class TPUActor:
      def __init__(self):
          pass

  # Create GPU actors on a gpu bundle.
  gpu_actors = [GPUActor.options(
          placement_group=pg,

>           placement_group_bundle_index=0) # Index of gpu_bundle is 0.

Reviewer 3: It would be good to be a bit more verbose in the explanation of the index. I'm not sure if it's clear from the code that this is the index in the original list.

      .remote() for _ in range(2)]

  # Create TPU actors on a tpu bundle.

>   tpu_actors = [GPUActor.options(

Reviewer 3: Can we also include non-actor tasks in the example?

          placement_group=pg,

>           placement_group_bundle_index=0) # Index of gpu_bundle is 0.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
          placement_group_bundle_index=0) # Index of gpu_bundle is 1.
```

      .remote() for _ in range(2)]

  # Now, you can guarantee all gpu and tpu actors are located on the same node
  # because they are scheduled on a placement group that has STRICT_PACK strategy.
  # You can see this by checking all actors have the same node id.

>   pprint(ray.actors())

Reviewer 2: Can you provide some output for these things? You might also consider breaking up the code block into different chunks!

  # Remove the placement group since we don't use it anymore.
  # This API is asynchronous.
  remove_placement_group(pg)

  # Wait until placement group is killed.
  import time
  time.sleep(1)
  # Check the placement group has died.

>   pprint(placement_group_table(pg))

Reviewer 3: Would be nice to show that the actors have died too (I assume they have?)!

>   ray.shutdown()

Reviewer 2: nice example though i had a hard time following - maybe key concepts and diagrams would help a lot!

Reviewer 3: I think a state diagram / flowchart would work nicely here. It would be good to show the stages of a placement group - created, scheduling, in use by tasks/actors, etc.

Reviewer 3: Oh, now I'm seeing the Lifecycle section below, oops! I think that would work well as a flowchart, though :)

Author: I will add state diagram, but I think we can merge this PR first!

Strategies
----------

Currently, 4 strategies are provided.

- **STRICT_PACK**: Bundles should be packed into a single node.
- **PACK**: Bundles are packed as much as possible, but it can be scheduled on multiple nodes.
- **STRICT_SPREAD**: Each bundle should be scheduled in a separate node.

> - **SPREAD**: Each bundle is trying to be scheduled in a separate node, but it is okay that some of bundles are scheduled in the same node.

Reviewer 2: strategies are a bit hard to verbalize/visually grasp- the best thing to do here is to show diagram and code!

**STRICT_SPREAD**

Each bundle must be scheduled in a separate node.

**SPREAD**

Each bundle will be spread onto separate nodes on a best effort basis.
If strict spreading is not feasible, bundles can be placed overlapping nodes.

Quick Start
-----------

Let's see an example of using placement group. Note that this example is done within a single node.

.. code-block:: python

  import ray
  from pprint import pprint

  # Import placement group APIs.
  from ray.util.placement_group import (
      placement_group,
      placement_group_table,
      remove_placement_group
  )

  ray.init(num_gpus=2, resources={"extra_resource": 2})

Let's create a placement group. Recall that each bundle is a collection of resources, and tasks or actors can be scheduled on each bundle.

.. code-block:: python

  gpu_bundle = {"GPU": 2}
  extra_resource_bundle = {"extra_resource": 2}

  # Reserve bundles with strict pack strategy.
  # It means Ray will reserve 2 "GPU" and 2 "extra_resource" on the same node (strict pack) within a Ray cluster.
  # Using this placement group for scheduling actors or tasks will guarantee that they will

>   # collocate in the same node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  # be colocated on the same node.
```

  pg = placement_group([gpu_bundle, extra_resource_bundle], strategy="STRICT_PACK")

  # Wait until placement group is created.
  ray.get(pg.ready())

Now let's define an actor that uses GPU. We'll also define a task that use ``extra_resources``.

.. code-block:: python

  @ray.remote(num_gpus=1)
  class GPUActor:
      def __init__(self):
          pass

  @ray.remote(resources={"extra_resource": 1})
  def extra_resource_task():
      import time
      # simulate long-running task.
      time.sleep(10)

  # Create GPU actors on a gpu bundle.
  gpu_actors = [GPUActor.options(
          placement_group=pg,
          # This is the index from the original list.
          placement_group_bundle_index=0) # Index of gpu_bundle is 0.
      .remote() for _ in range(2)]

  # Create extra_resource actors on a extra_resource bundle.
  extra_resource_actors = [extra_resource_task.options(
          placement_group=pg,
          # This is the index from the original list.
          placement_group_bundle_index=1) # Index of extra_resource_bundle is 1.
      .remote() for _ in range(2)]

> Now, you can guarantee all gpu actor and extra_resource task are located on the same node
> because they are scheduled on a placement group with the STRICT_PACK strategy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, you can guarantee all gpu actors and extra_resource tasks are located on the same node
because they are scheduled on a placement group with the STRICT_PACK strategy.
```

> Note that you must remove the placement group once you are finished with your application

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that you must remove the placement group once you are finished with your application.
```

Workers of actors and tasks that are scheduled on placement group will be all killed:

.. code-block:: python

  # This API is asynchronous.
  remove_placement_group(pg)

  # Wait until placement group is killed.
  import time
  time.sleep(1)
  # Check the placement group has died.
  pprint(placement_group_table(pg))

  """
  {'bundles': {0: {'GPU': 2.0}, 1: {'extra_resource': 2.0}},
  'name': 'unnamed_group',
  'placement_group_id': '40816b6ad474a6942b0edb45809b39c3',
  'state': 'REMOVED',
  'strategy': 'STRICT_PACK'}
  """

  ray.shutdown()

Lifecycle
---------

> When placement group is first created, the request is sent to GCS. GCS reserve resources to nodes based on scheduling strategy. Ray guarantees atomic creation of placement group.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When placement group is first created, the request is sent to the GCS. The GCS reserve resources to nodes based on its scheduling strategy. Ray guarantees the atomic creation of placement group.
```
